Interview Question:
-------------------
Personal:
1)Tell me about yourself in detail i.e work experience along with domain expertise?
2)What kind of projects have you worked on?
3)How much will you rate on your skillset?

Java:
What are the important features of Java 8 release?
What do you mean by platform independence of Java?
What is JVM and is it platform independent?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What are java collections?
OOPs concepts of java?
Threading in java?
Exception handling in java?
Difference between Strin, String Buffer and String Builder?
How to write Map-REduce programms in java?


Hive:
1) What is the difference between Pig and Hive ?
2) What is the difference between HBase and Hive ?
3) Can you list few commonly used Hive services?
>> Command Line interface(CLI), Hive Web Interface(HWI), HiveServer, HCatalog, Metastore, jar.
4) Suppose that I want to monitor all the open and aborted transactions in the system along with the transaction id and the transaction 
state. Can this be achieved using Apache Hive?
>> Yes we can monitor the hive jobs from hadoop job tracker UI by putting respective URL of the sql_text-stage.
5) What is the use of Hcatalog?
>> It is a table and storage management tool to enable users with different data processing tools - Pig, MapReduce - to more easily 
read and write on the grid.

deloitte interview questions:
-----------------------------
1: Hadoop architecture along with all components.
2: Hive architecture.
3: What is Hive catelog or HCatelog?
4: What are all Hive Services?
5: What is YARN? What it does actually?
6: Who will recieve notification or signals when name node getting down?
>> ZooKeeper Failover Controler
7: What is secondary namenode or standby namenode? And how it will work?
>>Secondary namenode is just a helper for Namenode.
  It gets the edit logs from the namenode in regular intervals and applies to fsimage.
  Once it has new fsimage, it copies back to namenode.
  Namenode will use this fsimage for the next restart, which will reduce the startup time.
  Secondary Namenode's whole purpose is to have a checkpoint in HDFS. Its just a helper node for namenode. That’s why it also known as checkpoint node.
  But, It cant replace namenode on namenode's failure.
  So, Namenode still is Single-Point-of-Failure.
  To overcome this issue; STANDBY-NAMENODE comes into picture.
  It does three things:
  merging fsimage and edits-log files. (Secondary-namenode's work)
  receive online updates of the file system meta-data, apply them to its memory state and persist them on disks just like the name-node does.
  Cluster will switch over to the new name-node (this standby-node) if the active namenode dies.
  
8: What is the difference between where and having?
9: What is the actual mechanism of where,having,group by, order by clauses?
10: What is oozie? What's the role of it in Hadoop ecosystem?
>>Oozie is a workflow scheduler system to manage Apache Hadoop jobs.
  Oozie Workflow jobs are Directed Acyclical Graphs (DAGs) of actions.

11: What is pig? how it it different from Hive?
12: What are all the differences between Map-Reduce and Spark engine processing mechanism?
13: What are all possible joins in Hive with proper examples?
14: Which one will work and why explain with reason:
>> Select A.id,B.id from A A INNER JOIN B B ON A.id=B.id and A.salary>100000;
>> Select A.id,B.id from A A INNER JOIN B B ON A.id=B.id where A.salary>100000;
15: Quick link to learn hadoop basics: http://ercoppa.github.io/HadoopInternals/HadoopArchitectureOverview.html

1: How to develop UDFs in Hive
2: How to delete duplicate records in hive.
3: What is diff b/w group by and Reduce by keys.
4: What is the role of combiner.
5: Map reduce programs in java.
6: What are all file formats in hive.
7: What are all kinds of join in hive.
8: What is skew join.
9: What is map side join and reduce side join.
10: Practice over partition by and clustered by.
11: Difference between groupBy and reduceBy keys.


------------------------
1: Sqoop
2: Hive services 
3: Unix scripts & commands
4: YARN
5: Collection
6: SQL joins and analytical functions
7: Resume 
